hey guys sean nalewanyj here of sean
malcolm and bodytransformationtruth.com
and in this video I want to cover a
somewhat strange topic and discuss why
you really need to handle your nuts with
care and why if you get too reckless
with them it could very easily throw
your entire muscle building or fat
burning program off course now nuts and
natural nut butters have always been
considered a staple source of healthy
fat in bodybuilding and fitness diets
and I certainly think that they are a
worthwhile food - including your overall
plan however this is one food source
where portion control is of the utmost
importance as I've said many times
before if your primary goal is to alter
your body composition then it really
makes no difference at all how healthy
you're eating if your total daily
calorie intake does not fall within the
proper range based on your goal if
you're aiming to lean down but you
aren't maintaining a net calorie deficit
over time 15 to 20% below your
maintenance would be my recommendation
then you're not going to lose any body
fat at all and if you're aiming to bulk
up and your net calorie surplus shoots
too high again 15 to 20% above
maintenance would be my recommendation
there you're still going to gain muscle
but you'll also be putting on excess
body fat at an excessive rate it's
really as simple as that and the plain
fact is that nuts and nut butters
although they are a healthy source of
fat are also very calorie dense you can
only eat a very controlled amount of
this stuff before the total calories
begin shooting too high without you even
noticing it sit down with a bag of mixed
nuts and just start snacking away or
start aimlessly piling peanut butter
onto your toaster into a protein shake
and in combination with a few other
small dietary choices that you're making
throughout the day you could very well
be completely sabotaging your results
altogether for example one tablespoon of
peanut butter alone contains around
100 calories most people end up scooping
out far more than this at once though
and end up with 200 or even 300 calories
just from one serving of peanut butter
alone and that's a lot of calories for
such a small amount of food peanuts
almonds cashews and other nuts are
really no different for example just 1/4
cup of almonds equals out to 207
calories go out and measure 1/4 cup of
almonds and you'll quickly see what a
small amount that actually is it might
sound crazy but a half cup of almonds
per day alone could literally make the
difference between consistently losing a
significant amount of body fat every
single week and making zero progress
whatsoever so the moral of the story
here is simple and that is treat your
nuts
with respect if you're going to include
nuts n natural nut butters in your diet
that's totally fine and even recommended
but just make sure that you measure out
your portions carefully and that it does
fit into your total daily calorie intake
as a whole in fact for items like this a
food scale is probably going to be the
ideal choice it might sound obsessive
but it really doesn't take any more time
to weigh them out than it does to put
them in a measuring cup and it will
ensure that you're not going overboard
and that what you consider to be a
tablespoon of peanut butter really is a
tablespoon of peanut butter heart
training is important making the proper
food choices is important but if your
total net calorie deficit or total net
calorie surplus is not properly in place
your results will definitely be
compromised or even worse they'll be
non-existent so thanks for watching this
video lesson I hope you found the
information useful here today if you did
enjoy the video as always please make
sure to hit the like button leave a
comment and subscribe to stay up-to-date
on future videos
also make sure to check out my complete
step-by-step muscle building and fat
loss programs over at
bodytransformationtruth.com the link for
that is in the description box below and
make sure to join the Facebook page for
daily tips and updates the link for that
is also in the description box talk to
you again soon
you